README.md, before:

# jekyll-image_optimizer
A jekyll plugin to optimize images for the web.
It reads all the images in a source directory and saves optimized versions of them to a destination directory
and creates a symbolic link to the destination directory.

Install it with `gem install jekyll-image_optimizer`.

Add this to your `plugins/ext.rb` file: `require 'jekyll/image_optimizer'`.

The following options for `_config.yml` are available:

Option | Description | Default value
--- | --- | ---
`raw_images` | the directory containing the unoptimized images | `img/raw`
`opt_images` | the directory containing the optimized images | `img/opt`
`images_link` | the name of the symbolic link pointing to `opt_images` | `images`
`image_geometry` | the size all images should be, is an ImageMagick [geometry string](http://www.imagemagick.org/RMagick/doc/imusage.html#geometry) and may be an array | `800x800>`
`image_hash` | if the optimized image files should be appended with a hash to enable unlimited caching | `true`
`image_layout` | the file containing the template for the `image` tag | `_layouts/image.html`

The plugin defines two liquid tags: `srcset` and `image`.
To include an image with multiple resolutions (using [scrset](http://ericportis.com/posts/2014/srcset-sizes/)) into a post, do the following:

In `_layouts/image.html` define the template of an image. For example:
```
<img srcset="{% srcset {{image.index}} %}" alt="{{image.alt}}"/>
```

In the front matter of the post, add
```
image:
    -   url: my_image.jpg
        alt: My Alt
```

and reference the image using `{% image 0 %}` where 0 is the index of the image.

Commit message:

add optional layout parameter to image definition

README.md, after:

# jekyll-image_optimizer
A jekyll plugin to optimize images for the web.
It reads all the images in a source directory and saves optimized versions of them to a destination directory
and creates a symbolic link to the destination directory.

Install it with `gem install jekyll-image_optimizer`.

Add this to your `plugins/ext.rb` file: `require 'jekyll/image_optimizer'`.

The following options for `_config.yml` are available:

Option | Description | Default value
--- | --- | ---
`raw_images` | the directory containing the unoptimized images | `img/raw`
`opt_images` | the directory containing the optimized images | `img/opt`
`images_link` | the name of the symbolic link pointing to `opt_images` | `images`
`image_geometry` | the size all images should be, is an ImageMagick [geometry string](http://www.imagemagick.org/RMagick/doc/imusage.html#geometry) and may be an array | `800x800>`
`image_hash` | if the optimized image files should be appended with a hash to enable unlimited caching | `true`
`image_layout` | the file containing the template for the `image` tag (inside `_layouts` folder) | `image.html`

The plugin defines two liquid tags: `srcset` and `image`.
To include an image with multiple resolutions (using [scrset](http://ericportis.com/posts/2014/srcset-sizes/)) into a post, do the following:

In `_layouts/image.html` define the template of an image. For example:
```
<img srcset="{% srcset {{image.index}} %}" alt="{{image.alt}}"/>
```

In the front matter of the post, add
```
image:
    -   url: my_image.jpg
        alt: My Alt
        layout: my-image.html
```

and reference the image using `{% image 0 %}` where 0 is the index of the image.
The optional `layout` parameter overwrites the `image_layout` parameter in `_config.yml`.
